Hey guys welcome back to the course in case.
Last lectures a rollercoaster of startup costs and operating expenses didn't satisfy your thirst for
modeling cost.
I'm here for another round this time.
We're going to dive a little more into that last bit we covered where we touched on.
Oh yeah.
We have to hire people to sell our stuff and all the things that could potentially go wrong with that.
We're going to cover the cost of headcount and labor.
Do you have to add these into your model.
Well are you going to hire people.
If your answer is yes or I don't know then yes you need to model this out.
I would consider your model to be incomplete if it didn't include these two.
And as you'll soon find out we're going to build our cost into two separate buckets.
One is headcount and the other is labor cost associated with that.
Now why do we build them out like that.
Well you'll soon find out.
Take it away Simon.
All right.
We are going to start off with the headcount calculations first.
Now let's start with the not so good way to do headcount.
The not so good way but it's passable if you don't know where to start is to say.
All right.
Well we start with some months and then let's look at you know how many do we have in each month so
let's say we're doing a line for Bakken engineers just hard code.
How many engineers we have for each corresponding month.
Now if you're not projecting it out you know for more than very long this is an easy way to do it right.
But you got it then input all of the increases you know.
So in this one maybe I want to add one engineer every three months he either entry like that or you
could use a formula and put it now but the problem with doing it this way is you have to visually look
at the whole formula or the whole line to kind of see what's going on.
And if there are some others rules that you put in the formula would be really hard to tease out what
you were trying to do other than you know being able to see what the outcome is right for that row right
there.
So let's look at a better way to do it better we could be if you did something where you say All right
let's start at some initial starting point for how many headcount for for that particular let's say
for Bakken engineers.
Let me start with one What month are we starting at.
Well in month one.
The reason we want to have this input is we may have some other line items where you don't start in
March month one you may want to hire them in months 6 or 12.
And then how often do you want to add and how many do you want to.
Right.
So let's say then we go all right well I want to have one every three months and set a maximum to the
most We're going to need is some value.
Right.
So what it does here is when you pull it out as an assumption it allows you to then look at what kind
of assumptions you're making right here rather than have to go into the formulas in the previous example
or just kind of punching everything in right.
So in this one now we're still doing the calculations but this one now is starting in month one we're
going to have a starting value one and it's going to increment every three months.
But it's going to have a maximum value of six or the maximum of headcounts going to get to 6 range.
So we then look at these results for that line.
We see that it's doing the same thing except when once we get past a certain point it is maxed out at
6.
Right.
So it's doing exactly the same thing.
But everything is pulled out here.
All right.
So if we look at the formula for the calculation it's kind of complicated.
It's a little bit long so it's tough to explain the whole thing.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to break it down into multiple steps and build this up.
Okay.
So let's start with the first part right.
First part is we wanted to start at some value in a starting month.
So the formula for that is we first look at hey if the month.
So we're checking the month here.
We're seeing if the month is less then the starting month then in 0 there's nothing.
And then if the month is equal to the starting month then we want it to equal to the starting value.
All right.
And then for our purposes for this example right here.
If it's anything else we'll just say it's zero.
Okay.
That's that's one way to do it.
So what we have then is the first part just calculates the correct starting with.
So now let's do the second part let's add on a max value.
So adding a max value is we have we have the same formula as before where we're determining when the
starting month should be.
And then what we're doing is let's take the minimum between the max value or whatever the calculation
is.
OK and then what.
Remember when we look at min and max you use the min function to set a max value and we can use the
max value to set a minimum value.
So what it's doing is saying hey you know give me the smaller number between our maximum headcount or
whatever is calculated.
So we haven't reached our maximum headcount.
Then if we use what's calculated but once we reach it then it will cap it at the max value.
So that's what the min function does and that's how we add this kind of maximum value there.
The third part is adding the increment every x number of months.
Right.
So in order to do that though we need to determine when those X months are occurring.
So here I just did a function to find when those X months are occurring.
So if we want it to occur every three months one way to do that is we want to see if the month is divisible
by three in our case if it is divisible and the Maat function which determines the difference or the
remainder that is left after dividing a number by another number.
So my god for two equal to zero because two goes perfectly into the four but maade for three will have
a remainder of 1.
So any time is a divisor of the number then the math equation will be zero.
So.
So we had maade 12 in month 12 and the.
And we're using the divisor as 3 then we're going to get zero as well.
So we're basically finding if it is evenly spaced in that month if it fits into those months if it is
right here I'm saying yes if not then show me nothing.
So that's where this.
Yes.
So then what that does then is we look at the formula for that Roe is hey every you know every three
months when it's divisible by three.
You see that is coming.
Right.
It is in the correct month.
Once we have the correct months we can add or do the increment by the incremental value in that month.
So here we're going to do that Sheck right.
Now we're going to say hey if is this the month where we want to do the increment if it is then add
the increment value to the previous value.
That's why we have the previous value here plus the increment value.
If not then just make it equal to the previous value.
So then when we do that we see that we're adding that new headcount only when it is the month where
we actually want to make the increment.
So those are the three components that make this way to model it.
It is a better approach although you know if you're just starting out and you just want to be able to
make that headcount calculation or the assumption it's okay to start off with something that that's
a good way the bad way to do it.
Okay.
Because you can still see it and it's still usable but the better way will be to do something like this
where you pull out the assumptions so that you can easily adjust this.
And these will automatically adjust for you.
All right next step once we have the headcount calculations by month right we have it all here.
Now then what we can do is we can calculate the salary.
Let's start up here.
Here we have the month and we have the headcount right.
This is exactly the same we're using the same formula from from the previous example for the headcount.
But once we have the headcount what we can do is we can do something very similar with the compensation.
We don't want to just multiply the headcount times some compensation rate for that month because you're
likely to have compensation that's going to change over time as well for you know that those associates
for that group of employees.
So in this example what if we had engineers where you know early on they're willing to take a little
bit of a pay cut you know and then overtime then we can reach some sort of a maximum compensation for
modeling purposes we can model basically the all in compensation rate.
That way you can put it all in there so you have to know what that is to keep it.
Keep it simple or you could separate everything you could separate you know wages from benefits from
other costs if they're very different for each of their roles.
But that kind of adds a lot of extra work for your modeling.
For most of you I would recommend just using all in compensation.
And as you can see here the structure is pretty much exactly the same right except now we're looking
at how the total compensation is changing over time.
So we see that we start off at maybe 8000 but then over time it reaches a max of 12000 per head count.
So then the salary is going to be the then headcount times the then total compensation.
This way we have the headcounts estranging And we also have the compensation that's changing over time
as well.
So we look at an example the reason why we're doing it like this is better than kind of putting all
of the hard coding all your assumptions in is because you might you might do something like this.
You may have different roles or you may have you know some senior folks who have other types of roles
there that you may start at some different starting values that you hire at starting at different times
you might add at different pace and grow at different pace and you may have also a different limit to
the total headcount.
Right.
And your salaries might be very different as well.
So you know usually the big difference for how the salary is calculated is maybe the founding team or
some of the senior folk is taking a severe pay cut in the beginning to bootstrap the startup.
You know before reaching some sort of a more market level.
OK.
Now this one what we have here is we have all the headcounts based on these assumptions here and the
example here I've only done the comp growth for the CEO and the CTO.
So you can see how that plays out.
And then for the other roles right here I showed this example using the method that most people do just
straight.
Total compensation for them not growing.
Now my challenge for you then is to do something like this for yourself but to then convert all the
roles into something where the compensation is also calculated you have a compensation schedule for
every roll and then calculate the total compensation for each group going down.
So imagine creating these tables here for all of these additional roles here and then recalculating
all of these.
OK.
Hope that makes sense.
And this is one way for you to be able to calculate and project your headcount and salary.